>> Kent: And we're gonna open the primer.
So this next one is
a big enough topic that
combining it with the current
solution was a little bit much.
And so we're gonna do a primer first and
then we'll have you go
into the final exercise.
Or into integrating the concept
with the rest of the component and
so we'll do this like a normal exercise.
We'll do the primer and then I'll do
the solution, so you can ask any questions
then, we'll let you combine it with
the existing toggle component.
But yeah, so this is vastly simplified.
It's not using render prompts,
it's not using a state reducer,
it's rendering its own thing.
But let's talk really quick
about what this thing even is,
why we even care about it.
So if we go to this, our objective
is to get two totally separate
components to synchronize their state.
And, so in the exercise they're
not synchronizing, which is sad.
So the way that this works,
from a user standpoint is we
have this usage and
we have this bothOn property.
And in here, whenever one of
these things toggles we call
handleToggle and it will set both
on to whatever the value is.
So I click on this one
it turns them both on,
I click on this one it
turns them both off.
So which ever one changed most
recently is the state for
both of them, and, yeah,
ignore the toggle ref stuff.
This is just stuff from my for the test so
implementation details for the test.
But the key difference here between
the existing toggle component
is that we now have an on prop and
this is the control prop.
So how many people are familiar
with controlled inputs or
controlled form elemnts?
Okay great, this is it, that's what it is.
We're implementing that pattern here.
So, if you add a value
property to an input,
you get an error message in the console.
Okay, what does that say?
You don't have to say it verbatim, I know
I've memorized all the error message, but
you don't have to.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Kent: Just kidding,
no it says you're controlling an input,
but not providing an onChange.
So it's read only,
the value will never change.
The user can type in it
as much as they want,
nothing is gonna happen because you've
taken control of the value of that input.
And then the onChange prop is there to
make suggestions to you to say hey,
based off of the way my inner
workings work, how I update my state
when I'm in control ,this is what I'd
suggest you update your state toBe.
But you do it whatever you want to.
So you can uppercase the string, you do
whatever else you wanna do with that.
That's where we're implementing for
the toggle component.
We say, hey, so,
I control this on state internally and
whenever the user clicks on that toggle or
that switch,
I update that on state to be
the opposite of what it was before.
So that's what I would do, but
you can do whatever you want with that.
And so in our case,
whatever we want is to update,
when this handle toggle
is called we update it
to be whatever that is, and then we re
render it to have the state we want it to.
So, like in Angular 1 land this
would be like two way binding and
that was the demo that caught us all.
My goodness that wasn't even any code,
it was just template stuff.
So, this is like implementing two way
binding in this particular example by
allowing for this prompt to be
passed to control that state.
So, let's go ahead and take a look at the
implementation and get this written out.
And you're gonna add a function
called isOnControlled.
You're gonna add a function
called getState because now
state can either come from props,
or it can come from state.
It's gonna come from one or the other not
both, do not try to synchronize state and
props, it's not a good idea.
Just get it from one or the other and
then inside of toggle, if it's controlled
then you should just call onToggle,
don't try to call setState cuz you don't
need to set state if it's controlled,
you're not managing it yourself anyway.
It could cause unnecessary re-render.
And then if it's not controlled,
then you can keep doing what
we've always been doing.
And then here you wanna get
state from the getState method,
because now that state can
come from props or state.
So okay, I'll let you off on that,
we'll run npm t and
swap these two in here.
By the way, the test that you find in this
repo, some of them are good tests and
some of them are very bad tests.
And I would never recommend that
you write tests like this for
your react components,
cuz lots of these are testing your
implementation details cuz I'm
testing your implementation, right?
So, come to my workshops in the next
couple of days to learn more about that.
But I forgot to mention that cuz
some people are gonna be like,
this is how I should test stuff.
No, please don't.